# DATA-SOSC-Final-Project
## Author: Robert Wang

(a corresponding pdf of the final paper is pending)

The final project for my Global Society III and DATA 119 course. The goal of this project was to understand how various factors relating to urban sprawl in Chinese cities affected access to secondary schools and predict cities that would have future issues with access to education due to urban sprawl.

The data was obtained from China Data Online, which is powered by China Data Institute. 180 datasets on Chinese prefecture cities were cleaned and then combined using the Pandas library. I then used the combined dataset to perform a variety of linear and multiple regresssions using the machine learning capabilities of scipy, sklearn, and statsmodel. From the regressions, I was able to model how urban sprawl factors affect access to secondary schools in China. I then created a feedforward neural network with keras to generate a probability that a city has a low access to education (less than 3.5 percent of the population is enrolled in secondary school). The network has two hidden layers and an output layer. Specifically, the neural network has a fully connected architecture with each neuron in one layer connected to all neurons in the next layer. The activation functions used in the hidden layers are sigmoid functions and the output layer uses a linear activation function. The loss function is Mean Squared Error, and the optimizer used is Adam. The model is trained for 1000 epochs with a batch size of 50 and is evaluated on a test set. The model ended with an accuracy of 90%. The dataset is then projected forward to 2025 using linear regressions with statsmodel. The resulting data is then fitted with the neural network, generating a list of cities that may have future issues with secondary school access due to urban sprawl.
